+++
title = "My Red Hot ADHD Programming 'Affliction'"
date = 2024-11-28
extra.symbol = "pill"
extra.link = "https://www.schneems.com/2024/11/21/my-red-hot-adhd-programming-affliction/"
+++

> While I could terraform my professional and adult life to work with my brain quirks and preferences, terraforming my wife and children wasn’t an option. Children are quite inflexible in their needs, and it was difficult for me to adapt. I’m generally meh at doing mundane and basic things but then will over-compensate by knocking a handful of really difficult (and interesting) things out of the park. You can’t do that with kids. All their needs are primal yet basic, and it doesn’t matter how well you can change a diaper - there’s no way to do it so well that your infant says, “Wow, that was great.”

This was a touching post to read and the kind that contributes back to the web. But it was a little disquieting to read this from an ADHD sufferer and compare it to [what I wrote about my own habits a few years ago][me].

> I don't have ADHD but I often feel lazy. I've made a good career in computing and I obviously _do_ get things done, or else nobody would employ me, but my career has been one long square wave -- where I oscillate between doing almost nothing and bouts of intense productivity. Good news: you can be successful doing this! Bad news: it's really fucking taxing on your well-being.

> It's not rare to spend four days of a work week getting almost nothing done, finishing several 8 hour days exhausted and frustrated, blaming this lack of progress on interruptions or succumbing to shallow work. Then, when I'm lucky, I nail things in the last day and it averages out to an okay week and I can start the cycle again. Sometimes that four days is more like 8 days, and that one "good day" is one sleepless night. It's not always like this, but ... it's not uncommon, either.

[me]: https://2023.insom.me.uk/2020/10/10/what-you-should-read.html
